AI/ReadMe.md, before:

# Notes on (*so called*) Artificial Intelligence and Large Language Models (LLM)

## legal stuff
- [DSK Orientierungshilfe KI](https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/oh/20240506_DSK_Orientierungshilfe_KI_und_Datenschutz.pdf)<br>
*Orientierungshilfe der Konferenz der unabhängigen Datenschutzaufsichtsbehörden des Bundes und der Länder vom 6. Mai 2024*
- [DSK zu TOMs bei der Nutzung von KI](https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/oh/DSK-OH_KI-Systeme.pdf)<br>
*Orientierungshilfe zu empfohlenen technischen und organisatorischen Maßnahmen bei der Entwicklung und beim Betrieb von KI-Systemen*, Juli 2025
- [KI Checkliste des BayLDA](https://www.lda.bayern.de/media/ki_checkliste.pdf)
- [Rechtsgrundlagen im Datenschutz beim Einsatz von Künstlicher Intelligenz](https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Rechtsgrundlagen-KI-v2.0.pdf)<br>
  LfDI.BW zu *Wann und wie dürfen personenbezogene Daten für das Training und die Anwendung von Künstlicher Intelligenz verarbeitet werden?*, Version 2.0 vom 17.10.2024
## ??
- [AI attribution for improved transparency](https://aiattribution.github.io/)<br>
  *An attribution statement identifies not only the presence of AI involvement, but also how AI was used. This approach makes important distinctions between different types and amounts of AI contributions, allowing creators to maintain ownership over co-created work and consumers to calibrate their trust.*<br>
  BUT: Where to put this *Attribution Info*?

## further Reading / Background Information
mainly iX Magazin by Heise, so behind PayWall
- [Der AI Act fordert ein ausreichendes Maß an KI-Kompetenz: Was das bedeutet](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/Der-AI-Act-fordert-ein-ausreichendes-Mass-an-KI-Kompetenz-Was-das-bedeutet-10237456.html), iX Magazin 2025-01-15, Paywall
- [Wie das KI-Modell DeepSeek-R1 arbeitet: Günstiges Reasoning für alle](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/DeepSeek-R1-vorgestellt-Guenstiges-Reasoning-fuer-alle-10273912.html), iX Magazin 2025-02-13, Paywall
- [DeepSeek-R1: Die Technik hinter dem Hype](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/DeepSeek-R1-Die-Technik-hinter-dem-Hype-10274513.html), iX Magazin 2025-02-14, Paywall

## Running LLMs locally
As it seems, the easiest way is to use [`ollama`](https://ollama.com/) as it's easy to deploy on local maschines and manages a wide variety of LLMs :-)

- [Heise](www.heise.de) published an article on this [topic](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/Sprachmodelle-lokal-betreiben-Fuenf-Tools-vorgestellt-10312843.html), but in german only:-(
- [OpenWebGUI](https://docs.openwebui.com/)
  *Open WebUI is an extensible, feature-rich, and user-friendly self-hosted AI platform designed to operate entirely offline.*
  - https://www.heise.de/tests/Open-WebUI-GUI-fuer-lokale-Sprachmodelle-im-Test-10488313.html
- [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/)
  *Your local AI toolkit. -- Download and run Llama, DeepSeek, Qwen, Gemma on your computer.*
- [vLLm](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/stable/) -- *Easy, fast, and cheap LLM serving for everyone*
  
## critical thoughts ..
- [Chatbots Are Cheating on Their Benchmark Tests](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2025/03/chatbots-benchmark-tests/681929/), The Atlantic, March 5, 2025
- [Faul und inkompetent? KI-Nutzung schadet dem Image im Büro](https://www.heise.de/news/Faul-und-inkompetent-KI-Nutzung-schadet-dem-Image-im-Buero-10381152.html)
- [Coding-KI läuft Amok und löscht gesamte Firmendatenbank aus "Panik"](https://winfuture.de/news,152386.html)

## interesting use cases / web offerings
- [THEY SEE YOUR PHOTOS](https://theyseeyourphotos.com/)<br>
  *Your photos reveal a lot of private information. In this experiment, we use the Google Vision API to see how much can be inferred about you from a single photo. See what they see.*

Commit message:

Add new article on generative AI's impact on critical thinking

AI/ReadMe.md, after:

# Notes on (*so called*) Artificial Intelligence and Large Language Models (LLM)

## legal stuff
- [DSK Orientierungshilfe KI](https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/oh/20240506_DSK_Orientierungshilfe_KI_und_Datenschutz.pdf)<br>
*Orientierungshilfe der Konferenz der unabhängigen Datenschutzaufsichtsbehörden des Bundes und der Länder vom 6. Mai 2024*
- [DSK zu TOMs bei der Nutzung von KI](https://www.datenschutzkonferenz-online.de/media/oh/DSK-OH_KI-Systeme.pdf)<br>
*Orientierungshilfe zu empfohlenen technischen und organisatorischen Maßnahmen bei der Entwicklung und beim Betrieb von KI-Systemen*, Juli 2025
- [KI Checkliste des BayLDA](https://www.lda.bayern.de/media/ki_checkliste.pdf)
- [Rechtsgrundlagen im Datenschutz beim Einsatz von Künstlicher Intelligenz](https://www.baden-wuerttemberg.datenschutz.de/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/Rechtsgrundlagen-KI-v2.0.pdf)<br>
  LfDI.BW zu *Wann und wie dürfen personenbezogene Daten für das Training und die Anwendung von Künstlicher Intelligenz verarbeitet werden?*, Version 2.0 vom 17.10.2024
## ??
- [AI attribution for improved transparency](https://aiattribution.github.io/)<br>
  *An attribution statement identifies not only the presence of AI involvement, but also how AI was used. This approach makes important distinctions between different types and amounts of AI contributions, allowing creators to maintain ownership over co-created work and consumers to calibrate their trust.*<br>
  BUT: Where to put this *Attribution Info*?

## further Reading / Background Information
mainly iX Magazin by Heise, so behind PayWall
- [Der AI Act fordert ein ausreichendes Maß an KI-Kompetenz: Was das bedeutet](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/Der-AI-Act-fordert-ein-ausreichendes-Mass-an-KI-Kompetenz-Was-das-bedeutet-10237456.html), iX Magazin 2025-01-15, Paywall
- [Wie das KI-Modell DeepSeek-R1 arbeitet: Günstiges Reasoning für alle](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/DeepSeek-R1-vorgestellt-Guenstiges-Reasoning-fuer-alle-10273912.html), iX Magazin 2025-02-13, Paywall
- [DeepSeek-R1: Die Technik hinter dem Hype](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/DeepSeek-R1-Die-Technik-hinter-dem-Hype-10274513.html), iX Magazin 2025-02-14, Paywall

## Running LLMs locally
As it seems, the easiest way is to use [`ollama`](https://ollama.com/) as it's easy to deploy on local maschines and manages a wide variety of LLMs :-)

- [Heise](www.heise.de) published an article on this [topic](https://www.heise.de/hintergrund/Sprachmodelle-lokal-betreiben-Fuenf-Tools-vorgestellt-10312843.html), but in german only:-(
- [OpenWebGUI](https://docs.openwebui.com/)
  *Open WebUI is an extensible, feature-rich, and user-friendly self-hosted AI platform designed to operate entirely offline.*
  - https://www.heise.de/tests/Open-WebUI-GUI-fuer-lokale-Sprachmodelle-im-Test-10488313.html
- [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai/)
  *Your local AI toolkit. -- Download and run Llama, DeepSeek, Qwen, Gemma on your computer.*
- [vLLm](https://docs.vllm.ai/en/stable/) -- *Easy, fast, and cheap LLM serving for everyone*
  
## critical thoughts ..
- [Chatbots Are Cheating on Their Benchmark Tests](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2025/03/chatbots-benchmark-tests/681929/), The Atlantic, March 5, 2025
- [Faul und inkompetent? KI-Nutzung schadet dem Image im Büro](https://www.heise.de/news/Faul-und-inkompetent-KI-Nutzung-schadet-dem-Image-im-Buero-10381152.html)
- [Coding-KI läuft Amok und löscht gesamte Firmendatenbank aus "Panik"](https://winfuture.de/news,152386.html)
- [The Impact of Generative AI on Critical Thinking: Self-Reported Reductions in Cognitive Effort and Confidence Effects From a Survey of Knowledge Workers](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/lee_2025_ai_critical_thinking_survey.pdf), CMU and Microsoft Research UK

## interesting use cases / web offerings
- [THEY SEE YOUR PHOTOS](https://theyseeyourphotos.com/)<br>
  *Your photos reveal a lot of private information. In this experiment, we use the Google Vision API to see how much can be inferred about you from a single photo. See what they see.*
