# ANS4042E -- _Object name 'filespace namepath-namefile-name' contains one or more unrecognized characters and is not valid._

## Problem

You observe messages `ANS4042E` or `ANE4042E` and the note _contains one or more unrecognized characters and is not valid_ in the log file.

What does this mean? How to cope with it?

## Answer:

ANS4042E occurs together with the error message “ANS1802E”, e.g:

```
08.01.2015 22:00:31 ANS4042E Object name /mnt/data/scratch/Dr<E4>hte.pdf' contains one or more unrecognized characters and is not valid.
08.01.2015 22:00:42 ANS1802E Incremental backup of '/mnt/data' finished with 485 failure(s)
```
 
## Explanation:
When searching the file tree, files were found whose names contain characters that are not included in the current character set encoding (in the example, the `ä` is represented by `<E4>`). This usually occurs when directories are exported via NFS or CIFS/Samba to computers that use a different encoding.

TSM/SP cannot uniquely identify these files and therefore does not backup them.

## Remedy

In the `en_US` character set, all unknown characters are replaced by unique replacement characters. The file or directory name is then no longer easily readable for the user, but it is for the TSM client and the backup of the files is possible. The character set / _locale_  should therefore be set to `en_US` for the TSM backup (and of course also the restore) at least during the execution of the backup run.

### approach to implement the remedy

recently I tested the following approach:

The character set encoding can be set via a so-called PreSchedCmd, i.e. a command that is executed first when the backup schedule is run. To do this, add the following line to the configuration file `dsm.sys`:

```
PRESCHEDULECMD "export LANG=en_US"
```

_Important_:

doing a restore you also have to set the locale before doing it:
```
export LANG=en_US
dsmc res <further restore commands and options>
```
respectively

```
export LANG=en_US
dsmj
```

### alternative approach
There's another approach to set the locale.However, this is somewhat more complex and does not save setting during the restore. It is also more error-prone and requires the backup service script to be adapted after each client update:

You can put an addtional line in the `dsmcad` service script:

```
export DSM_DIR=/opt/tivoli/tsm/client/ba/bin
export DSM_CONFIG=/opt/tivoli/tsm/client/ba/bin/dsm.opt
export DSM_LOG=/var/log/tsm
# Fixed to change this ANS4042E
export LANG=en_US
export LC_ALL=en_US
```

_Advice for user of old Debian/Ubuntu derivates:_

If the required locale is missing under Debian/Ubuntu, an error message will appear when starting the service and the locales must still be installed and/or activated for gcc. For gcc-4.3, for example, this would be the package gcc-4.3-locales:
```
apt-cache search gcc locales && apt-get install gcc-4.3-locales
```
The existing locales should now be checked and additional ones activated if necessary.
```
locale -a
```
displays the existing locales. This should also include en_US. If these are missing, they must be entered or commented in en_US in /etc/locale.gen. With
```
locale-gen en_US
```
the required locale is then generated. The error message should now no longer appear when the service is restarted.

## Background information

- [IBM Documentation for TSM V7.1.1](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/tsm/7.1.1?topic=variables-set-language-environment)
- [IBM Documentation for TSM V8.1.23](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/storage-protect/8.1.23?topic=solaris-set-language-environment-variables)