Linux/ReadMe.md, before:

# N2K Linux

## _Unix-Philosophy on Pipelining_
The principle that _the output of one Unix tool should be usable as the input for another_ is a core tenet of [Unix philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy). This idea was popularized by [Doug McIlroy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Douglas_McIlroy), one of the original developers of Unix at Bell Labs.

McIlroy articulated this concept in the early 1970s, emphasizing the importance of building small, modular programs that do one thing well and can be chained together using pipes. His famous quote is:

    “Write programs that do one thing and do it well. Write programs to work together. Write programs to handle text streams, because that is a universal interface.”

This philosophy led to the creation of powerful command-line tools like grep, awk, sed, and sort, which can be combined in [pipelines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipeline_(Unix)) to perform complex tasks efficiently.


## initially just collection links :-)

- [Linux Bash Shell Scripting Tutorial](https://bash.cyberciti.biz/guide/Main_Page) by Nixcraft, maybe outdated as copyright ends in 2017?
### German Sites
- [FOSSWELT ist ein Zusammenschluss von verschiedenen deutschsprachigen Plattformen und Projekten aus dem Bereich Freie Software.](https://fosswelt.org/)
- [LinuxFOSS -- Anleitungen und HowTos rund um Linux](https://linuxfoss.de/)

> [!TIP]
> Red Hat offers a [*No-cost Red Hat Enterprise Linux Individual Developer Subscription*](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/faqs-no-cost-red-hat-enterprise-linux#):<br>
> *"The no-cost Red Hat Developer Subscription for Individuals is available and includes Red Hat Enterprise Linux along with numerous other Red Hat technologies. Users can access this no-cost subscription by joining the Red Hat Developer program at developers.redhat.com/register. Joining the program is free."*

Commit message:

Enhance ReadMe with Unix philosophy and add learning resources
Emphasized the Unix philosophy principle and added new resources for learning Bash.

Linux/ReadMe.md, after:

# N2K Linux

## _Unix-Philosophy on Pipelining_

The principle that ***the output of one Unix tool should be usable as the input for another*** is a core tenet of [Unix philosophy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_philosophy). This idea was popularized by [Doug McIlroy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Douglas_McIlroy), one of the original developers of Unix at Bell Labs.

McIlroy articulated this concept in the early 1970s, emphasizing the importance of building small, modular programs that do one thing well and can be chained together using pipes. His famous quote is:

    “Write programs that do one thing and do it well. Write programs to work together. Write programs to handle text streams, because that is a universal interface.”

This philosophy led to the creation of powerful command-line tools like grep, awk, sed, and sort, which can be combined in [pipelines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pipeline_(Unix)) to perform complex tasks efficiently.


## initially just collection links :-)

- [Linux Bash Shell Scripting Tutorial](https://bash.cyberciti.biz/guide/Main_Page) by Nixcraft, maybe outdated as copyright ends in 2017?

### German Sites

- [FOSSWELT ist ein Zusammenschluss von verschiedenen deutschsprachigen Plattformen und Projekten aus dem Bereich Freie Software.](https://fosswelt.org/)
- [LinuxFOSS -- Anleitungen und HowTos rund um Linux](https://linuxfoss.de/)

> [!TIP]
> Red Hat offers a [*No-cost Red Hat Enterprise Linux Individual Developer Subscription*](https://developers.redhat.com/articles/faqs-no-cost-red-hat-enterprise-linux#):<br>
> *"The no-cost Red Hat Developer Subscription for Individuals is available and includes Red Hat Enterprise Linux along with numerous other Red Hat technologies. Users can access this no-cost subscription by joining the Red Hat Developer program at developers.redhat.com/register. Joining the program is free."*

### Play-2-Learn

- [Bash Lernspiele](https://www.heise.de/ratgeber/Linux-und-macOS-Kommandozeile-mit-Lernspielen-meistern-11164870.html), Heise+, Paywall
  - [Terminus](https://www.mprat.org/Terminus/) *starts directly with a webbased shell*
    - [Terminus @ Github](https://github.com/mprat/Terminus)
  - [Bashcrawl](https://gitlab.com/slackermedia/bashcrawl) *This is a game to teach you the basics of using a POSIX (Linux, BSD, UNIX) terminal.*
    - you must download and run it locally.
